---
title: Spring Boot and Spring Data for Data Access and Persistence
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-02-08T06:32:37.728Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-02-08T06:32:31.681Z
---

- [Spring Boot y Spring Data para acceso y persistencia de datos***Spanish** document is available*](/es/Knowledge-base/Spring-Boot/spring-boot-and-spring-data-for-data-access-and-persistence)
{.links-list}
- [用于数据访问和持久化的 Spring Boot 和 Spring Data***Chinese Simplified** document is available*](/zh/Knowledge-base/Spring-Boot/spring-boot-and-spring-data-for-data-access-and-persistence)
{.links-list}
- [데이터 액세스 및 지속성을 위한 Spring Boot 및 Spring 데이터***Korean** document is available*](/ko/Knowledge-base/Spring-Boot/spring-boot-and-spring-data-for-data-access-and-persistence)
{.links-list}


# Spring Boot and Spring Data for Data Access and Persistence

## Introduction

Spring Boot is a popular Java web application framework that provides a range of features, including a CLI, embedded Tomcat, and auto-configuration. Spring Data is a sub-project of Spring that focuses on providing data access and persistence solutions for Java applications.

In this article, we'll take a look at how to use Spring Boot and Spring Data to access and persist data in a relational database. We'll also explore some of the features that make Spring Data a good choice for data access and persistence in Java applications.

## Configuring Spring Boot for Relational Databases

Spring Boot can be configured to work with a variety of relational databases, including MySQL, PostgreSQL, and Oracle. In this section, we'll take a look at how to configure Spring Boot to work with a MySQL database.

First, we'll need to add the following dependency to our `pom.xml` file:

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-data-jpa</artifactId>
</dependency>
```

Next, we'll need to configure some properties in our `application.properties` file:

```properties
spring.datasource.url=jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/mydatabase
spring.datasource.username=myusername
spring.datasource.password=mypassword

spring.jpa.database=MYSQL
spring.jpa.show-sql=true
spring.jpa.hibernate.ddl-auto=update
```

In the `spring.datasource` properties, we're configuring the URL, username, and password for our MySQL database. In the `spring.jpa` properties, we're configuring the database type (MySQL), telling Spring Boot to show SQL queries, and telling Hibernate to automatically update the database schema.

## Accessing Data with Spring Data

Spring Data makes it easy to access data in a relational database with Java. In this section, we'll take a look at how to use Spring Data to access data in a MySQL database.

First, we'll need to create a `@Repository` interface for our data:

```java
@Repository
public interface MyRepository extends JpaRepository<MyEntity, Long> {

}
```

The `@Repository` annotation tells Spring that this is a repository for data. The `JpaRepository` interface provides methods for accessing data in a relational database. The `MyEntity` class is an entity class that represents a row in our database. The `Long` type is the type of the primary key for our entity.

Next, we'll need to create an entity class:

```java
@Entity
public class MyEntity {

    @Id
    @GeneratedValue
    private Long id;

    private String name;

    // Getters and setters
}
```

The `@Entity` annotation tells Spring that this is an entity class. The `@Id` annotation tells Spring that the `id` field is the primary key for the entity. The `@GeneratedValue` annotation tells Spring that the `id` field should be automatically generated by the database.

Now that we have our repository and entity classes set up, we can use them to access data in our database. For example, we can use the `findAll()` method to find all entities in our database:

```java
List<MyEntity> myEntities = myRepository.findAll();
```

We can also use the `save()` method to save an entity to our database:

```java
MyEntity myEntity = new MyEntity();
myEntity.setName("John Smith");

myRepository.save(myEntity);
```

## Conclusion

In this article, we've looked at how to use Spring Boot and Spring Data to access and persist data in a relational database. We've also seen how Spring Data makes it easy to access data in a Java application.