---
title: Compiler
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-02-08T17:17:58.162Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-02-08T17:17:51.538Z
---

- [Compiler***Japanese** document is available*](/ja/Knowledge-base/Dictionary/compiler)
{.links-list}
- [Compiler***Spanish** document is available*](/es/Knowledge-base/Dictionary/compiler)
{.links-list}
- [Compiler***Chinese Simplified** document is available*](/zh/Knowledge-base/Dictionary/compiler)
{.links-list}
- [Compiler***Korean** document is available*](/ko/Knowledge-base/Dictionary/compiler)
{.links-list}


# Overview
A compiler is a computer program that translates source code written in a programming language into machine code, which can be executed by a computer. Compilers are used to create executable programs for computers, as well as for other devices such as smartphones, video game consoles, and embedded systems.

# Description
A compiler is a program that takes source code written in a programming language and converts it into machine code that can be executed by a computer. The source code is written in a high-level programming language, such as C, C++, Java, or Python, and is usually written by a software developer. The compiler then takes the source code and translates it into machine code, which is a low-level language that the computer can understand and execute.

Compilers are used to create executable programs for computers, as well as for other devices such as smartphones, video game consoles, and embedded systems. Compiler technology is also used in the development of software for web applications and mobile applications.

Compilers are typically divided into two parts: the front end and the back end. The front end is responsible for analyzing the source code and generating an intermediate representation of the code, which is then passed to the back end. The back end is responsible for optimizing the intermediate representation and generating the machine code.

Compilers are typically used in combination with other tools, such as linkers, debuggers, and profilers, to create a complete development environment for creating software.

# History
The first compiler was developed in the 1950s by Grace Hopper, an American computer scientist. The compiler, called the A-0 System, was developed to translate mathematical algorithms written in assembly language into machine code.

Since the 1950s, compilers have become increasingly complex and powerful. The development of compilers has been driven by the need to create faster and more efficient programs, as well as to make programming easier and more accessible to a wider range of developers.

# Features
Compilers have a number of features that make them useful for software development. Some of these features include:

- Optimization: Compilers can optimize the machine code generated from the source code, resulting in faster and more efficient programs.
- Error detection: Compilers can detect errors in the source code and alert the user to potential problems.
- Cross-platform compatibility: Compilers can generate code for different platforms, such as Windows, Linux, and Mac OS.
- Code generation: Compilers can generate code for different architectures, such as x86 and ARM.

# Example
Let's look at an example of a compiler in action. We'll use the C programming language as an example.

First, we'll write a simple C program that prints "Hello World!" to the screen:

```
#include <stdio.h>
 
int main() {
    printf("Hello World!\n");
    return 0;
}
```

Next, we'll compile the program using a C compiler, such as gcc or clang. The compiler will take the source code and generate machine code that can be executed by the computer.

# Pros and Cons
Compilers have a number of advantages and disadvantages. Some of the advantages include:

- They can optimize the code generated from the source code, resulting in faster and more efficient programs.
- They can detect errors in the source code and alert the user to potential problems.
- They can generate code for different platforms and architectures.

Some of the disadvantages include:

- Compilers can be complex and difficult to use.
- Compilers can be slow, especially for large programs.
- Compilers can generate inefficient code if not used correctly.

# Related Technology
Compilers are often used in combination with other tools, such as linkers, debuggers, and profilers, to create a complete development environment for creating software.

Linkers are used to link together multiple object files generated by the compiler into a single executable program.

Debuggers are used to debug programs by allowing the developer to step through the code and analyze the state of the program at each step.

Profilers are used to analyze the performance of programs and identify areas where the code can be improved.

# Others
Compilers are an essential tool for software development, and have been used in the development of software for decades. Compilers are constantly evolving, and new compilers are being developed all the time to take advantage of the latest technologies and platforms.