---
title: 009: Using Spring Boot with NoSQL databases (MongoDB)
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-02-03T08:36:52.142Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-02-03T08:36:50.440Z
---

- [009: uso de Spring Boot con bases de datos NoSQL (MongoDB)***Spanish** document is available*](/es/Knowledge-base/Spring-Boot/Learning/009-using-spring-boot-with-nosql-databases-mongodb)
{.links-list}
- [009：将 Spring Boot 与 NoSQL 数据库 (MongoDB) 结合使用***Chinese Simplified** document is available*](/zh/Knowledge-base/Spring-Boot/Learning/009-using-spring-boot-with-nosql-databases-mongodb)
{.links-list}
- [009: NoSQL 데이터베이스(MongoDB)에서 Spring Boot 사용***Korean** document is available*](/ko/Knowledge-base/Spring-Boot/Learning/009-using-spring-boot-with-nosql-databases-mongodb)
{.links-list}


# Using Spring Boot with NoSQL databases (MongoDB)

In this post, we'll take a look at using Spring Boot with MongoDB, a popular NoSQL database.

We'll cover the following topics:

* What is MongoDB?
* Why use MongoDB with Spring Boot?
* Setting up MongoDB
* Creating a Spring Boot application with MongoDB
* Conclusion

## What is MongoDB?

MongoDB is a powerful document-oriented NoSQL database. It has an index-based search feature and a flexible schema. MongoDB is easy to scale and is popular for its high performance and scalability.

## Why use MongoDB with Spring Boot?

Spring Boot is a popular Java framework for building web applications. It is built on top of the Spring framework and makes it easy to create stand-alone, production-grade Spring-based applications.

MongoDB is a good choice for use with Spring Boot because it is easy to set up and use. MongoDB is also easy to scale, which is important for applications that are expected to grow.

## Setting up MongoDB

Before we can use MongoDB with Spring Boot, we need to set it up.

There are two ways to set up MongoDB:

* Use a hosted service like MongoDB Atlas
* Install MongoDB locally

We'll cover both options below.

### Use a hosted service like MongoDB Atlas

The easiest way to set up MongoDB is to use a hosted service like MongoDB Atlas. MongoDB Atlas is a cloud-hosted MongoDB service. It is easy to set up and use.

To use MongoDB Atlas, you will need to create an account and set up a cluster. A cluster is a group of MongoDB servers that are used to store data.

Once you have created an account and set up a cluster, you will need to create a user. The user will be used by the Spring Boot application to connect to the MongoDB database.

After you have created a user, you will need to get the connection string. The connection string is used to connect the Spring Boot application to the MongoDB database.

### Install MongoDB locally

If you would like to install MongoDB locally, you can follow the instructions on the MongoDB website.

Once you have installed MongoDB, you will need to create a database. The database will be used by the Spring Boot application to store data.

After you have created a database, you will need to create a user. The user will be used by the Spring Boot application to connect to the MongoDB database.

After you have created a user, you will need to get the connection string. The connection string is used to connect the Spring Boot application to the MongoDB database.

## Creating a Spring Boot application with MongoDB

Now that we have MongoDB set up, we can create a Spring Boot application that uses MongoDB.

We'll start by creating a new Spring Boot application. We'll call it "spring-boot-mongodb".

Next, we'll add the following dependencies to our project:

* spring-boot-starter-data-mongodb: This dependency is used to connect to a MongoDB database.
* spring-boot-starter-web: This dependency is used to create a web application.

We'll also need to add the following property to our application.properties file:

spring.data.mongodb.uri=mongodb://localhost/spring-boot-mongodb

This property is used to configure the connection to our MongoDB database.

Next, we'll create a model class. This class will be used to represent our data. We'll call it "User".

The User class will have the following fields:

* id: The id of the user. This field will be generated by MongoDB.
* name: The name of the user.
* email: The email of the user.

Next, we'll create a repository interface. This interface will be used to access our data. We'll call it "UserRepository".

The UserRepository interface will extend the MongoRepository interface. The MongoRepository interface provides methods for CRUD operations.

Next, we'll create a controller. This controller will be used to handle web requests. We'll call it "UserController".

The UserController class will have the following methods:

* getAllUsers: This method will be used to get all users.
* createUser: This method will be used to create a user.
* getUser: This method will be used to get a user by id.
* updateUser: This method will be used to update a user.
* deleteUser: This method will be used to delete a user.

Finally, we'll create a service class. This class will be used to business logic. We'll call it "UserService".

The UserService class will have the following methods:

* getAllUsers: This method will be used to get all users.
* createUser: This method will be used to create a user.
* getUser: This method will be used to get a user by id.
* updateUser: This method will be used to update a user.
* deleteUser: This method will be used to delete a user.

## Conclusion

In this post, we've looked at using Spring Boot with MongoDB. We've covered the following topics:

* What is MongoDB?
* Why use MongoDB with Spring Boot?
* Setting up MongoDB
* Creating a Spring Boot application with MongoDB