---
title: 027: Integrating with OAuth 2.0 using Spring Boot
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-02-03T19:32:40.412Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-02-03T19:32:35.443Z
---

- [027: Integración con OAuth 2.0 usando Spring Boot***Spanish** document is available*](/es/Knowledge-base/Spring-Boot/Learning/027-integrating-with-oauth-2-0-using-spring-boot)
{.links-list}
- [027：使用 Spring Boot 与 OAuth 2.0 集成***Chinese Simplified** document is available*](/zh/Knowledge-base/Spring-Boot/Learning/027-integrating-with-oauth-2-0-using-spring-boot)
{.links-list}
- [027: Spring Boot를 사용하여 OAuth 2.0과 통합***Korean** document is available*](/ko/Knowledge-base/Spring-Boot/Learning/027-integrating-with-oauth-2-0-using-spring-boot)
{.links-list}


# OAuth 2.0 and Spring Boot

In this post, we'll take a look at how to use Spring Boot to integrate with OAuth 2.0.

OAuth 2.0 is a popular standard for authorization. It's used by many large companies, including Google, Facebook, and Twitter.

Spring Boot is a popular Java framework for building web applications.

## What is OAuth 2.0?

OAuth 2.0 is an authorization standard. It allows a user to grant a third-party application access to their data, without sharing their password.

For example, if you use Google to sign in to a third-party website, you're using OAuth 2.0. The third-party website doesn't need your Google password; it only needs permission to access your data.

## How does OAuth 2.0 work?

OAuth 2.0 works by using a token. A token is a piece of data that represents a user's permission to access their data.

Tokens are generated by an authorization server. When a user grants a third-party application access to their data, the authorization server generates a token. The token is then sent to the third-party application.

The third-party application can then use the token to access the user's data.

## Why use OAuth 2.0?

There are several benefits to using OAuth 2.0:

- It's a standard: OAuth 2.0 is a widely-used standard, so there are many libraries and tools available for it.

- It's secure: OAuth 2.0 is designed to be secure. Tokens are generated by an authorization server, so they can't be guessed by third-party applications.

- It's easy to use: OAuth 2.0 is designed to be easy to use. Users don't need to remember their passwords for every application they use.

## How to use OAuth 2.0 with Spring Boot

Spring Boot makes it easy to use OAuth 2.0.

First, you need to add the Spring Security OAuth dependency to your project:

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.security.oauth</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-security-oauth2</artifactId>
    <version>2.3.4.RELEASE</version>
</dependency>
```

Next, you need to configure the authorization server. The authorization server is responsible for generating tokens.

Spring Boot can automatically configure an authorization server. All you need to do is add the following properties to your application.properties file:

```properties
spring.security.oauth2.client.registration.client-id=<your-client-id>
spring.security.oauth2.client.registration.client-secret=<your-client-secret>
spring.security.oauth2.client.provider.oauth2.authorization-uri=https://<your-authorization-server>/oauth2/authorize
spring.security.oauth2.client.provider.oauth2.token-uri=https://<your-authorization-server>/oauth2/token
spring.security.oauth2.client.provider.oauth2.user-info-uri=https://<your-authorization-server>/oauth2/userinfo
```

Replace <your-client-id> with the client ID of your application, and <your-client-secret> with the client secret of your application.

Replace <your-authorization-server> with the URL of your authorization server.

Spring Boot will automatically configure an authorization server with the client ID and client secret you provided.

Now that the authorization server is configured, you can start using it.

First, you need to get an access token. An access token is a token that allows you to access a user's data.

To get an access token, you need to send a POST request to the authorization server. The request should include the following parameters:

- client_id: The client ID of your application
- client_secret: The client secret of your application
- grant_type: The type of grant you're requesting. For OAuth 2.0, this should be "authorization_code"
- code: The code you received from the authorization server
- redirect_uri: The redirect URI of your application

The authorization server will respond with an access token.

Once you have an access token, you can use it to access a user's data.

To do this, you need to send a GET request to the resource server. The request should include the following parameters:

- access_token: The access token you received from the authorization server

The resource server will respond with the user's data.

## Additional Information

- OAuth 2.0 is an authorization standard, not an authentication standard. OAuth 2.0 can be used for authentication, but it's not designed for it.

- Spring Boot doesn't support OAuth 2.0 out of the box. You need to add the Spring Security OAuth dependency to your project.

- Spring Boot can automatically configure an authorization server. All you need to do is add the client ID and client secret to your application.properties file.